hello mike beier here I am doing a
series of videos to help appraisers
become more productive and I'm just
going through some of the tools that I
use that have helped make me more
productive and I'm a real estate
appraiser in Illinois and I just wanted
to show you some of the things I've been
using for a few years now that have
helped me I don't know a lot of people
do have a dual monitor setup but today I
was going to talk briefly about dual
monitors and how important it is and how
quickly you can cut and paste data from
your source into your report having a
dual monitor setup this is what I do in
the morning when I'm preparing my files
to go I have the appraisal software in
this case it's alamode I have a loadout
on one screen and the data sources on
the other so I'm preparing these files
before I leave and I want to get as much
since I have this open I want to get as
much of this data on the report before I
go so I feel like if I've got I'm
opening this to view it to see where I'm
going and what I'm getting into for the
morning if I have it open and as well
grab the data and put it on the report
there's no sense I used years ago I used
to view this put my comparables and go
and then open it up again and take this
information and type it in the report
and if I have it open and as we'll put
it on here now take some up takes me
probably 10 to 15 minutes in the morning
to get a lot of the first page in and
it's all public record and the great
thing about cutting and pasting is
there's no errors so I'm going to show
you the quick my quick dual monitor
setup like I say I just have at this one
of the morning and I was getting ready
and this particular property was the one
that I am going to be going to view I
put the job number in here quickly
I have voice recognition so I would
speak the job number in there I'm going
to take the I'll show you on the other
public record source I'm going to take
the legal description without any errors
I'll copy it and put it right over there
and now I know it's in there and there's
no errors I'm going to take the parcel
number it came right from the source so
I know it's right and you know I know
this is
this particular project it's in the
legal description but I know what it is
already so I'm gonna put that right in
there this is a lender I have it drop
down to the list or start speaking it
they'll grab it the borrower's name I
can take off from my other source so I'm
going to take this name and cut it and
put it right on there when you have the
dual monitors up you can go right right
from the digital format put it right on
your appraisal report and it's set now
when I save it all my all my I would
normally go through all this and add it
all cut and paste it all in here for but
for demonstration purposes you get the
idea having the the sources on one
screen my public records and tax sources
on one screen and the appraisal report
on the other I'll do as much of that as
I can I save it in my iPad to go file i
sync it to my iPad and in the morning
I'm gone so I highly highly recommend
getting a dual monitor setup if you
don't know how to do that all you need
is a you can go to Best Buy and ask them
for a video card for your model of your
computer tell them what what type of
computer you have tell me you need a
video card or bring your computer to
them have them install video card
they'll have the two VGA or DVI outputs
I plug the two monitors in and it's very
easy to set up it's worth it even if you
have to pay someone to set it up in the
amount of production you'll save by just
taking your sources dropping them right
on the on the report it's I'd have to
say that probably increases your
production by twenty to thirty percent
and no errors because you're taking
again you're taking it right from the
source so anyway I hope you found that
useful and I hope you do use dual
monitors because it is it makes you much
more efficient and accurate my name is
Mike milah I'm a real estate appraiser
you can always email me at Mike milah at
gmail.com that's mi ke mi la at
gmail.com if you have any feedback or if
there's anything else you'd like to
discuss okay thank you